# Sharing Status with Microblogs [](id=sharing-status-with-microblogs)

The Microblogs Status Update and Microblogs widgets let you post, receive, and 
share short, 150 character status updates from your personal pages. This gives 
you a quick and simple way to interact with your social connections and other 
users. Microblogs Status Update is a very simple widget that lets you post a 
status update and displays your most recent post. The Microblogs widget, in 
addition to this functionality, also lets you: 

- View all your posts and those of your social connections. 
- Comment on and share posts. 
- View posts that mention you or contain a specific hashtag. 

Before delving into these details, you should first understand where you'll use 
these widgets. 

## Where to Use the Widgets [](id=where-to-use-the-widgets)

Because Microblogs Status Update and Microblogs broadcast your personal status, 
you must use them from your personal site's pages. By default, these pages are 
called *My Profile* and *My Dashboard*. You can access both from the user menu. 
My Profile is public and serves as your public profile. Users and guests can 
view any widgets you add to this page, although widget appearance and 
functionality are typically limited. My Dashboard is private and by default 
contains the *My Sites* widget. You can add other widgets to this page to help 
you, and only you, manage your experience. 

You can add the Microblogs Status Update and Microblogs widgets to both pages, 
but the widgets behave differently depending on where they are and who sees 
them. If you put them on a public page like My Profile, only logged in users can 
see your posts, and posting is disabled. After all, you wouldn't want others to 
make posts on your behalf! The internet is crazy enough without granting others 
that kind of power. Logged in users can, however, comment on posts in the 
Microblogs widget. Guests can see the widgets, but not the posts. Things get 
more interesting when you add the widgets to a private page that only you can 
access, like My Dashboard. You'll learn about this next. 

## Using Microblogs Status Update and Microblogs [](id=using-microblogs-status-update-and-microblogs)

As mentioned, Microblogs Status Update is a very simple widget that lets you 
post your status, and displays only your most recent post. You can even 
configure it not to display this post. To do so, mouse over the widget, click 
the *Options* button 
(![Options](../../../images/icon-app-options.png)) 
that appears, and click *Configuration*. In the *Setup* tab, uncheck 
*Display Most Recent Status* and click *Save*. 

To post your status, enter it into the *Update Your Status* field and click the 
*Post* button that appears. You can also select who can view your post from the 
*Viewable By* menu next to the Post button. You can select *Everyone*, 
*Connections*, or *Followers*. For more information on connections and 
followers, see 
[Creating a Social Network](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-1/creating-a-social-network). 

![Figure 1: The Microblogs Status Update widget lets you post your status, and displays your most recent post.](../../../images/microblogs-status-update.png)

There are two special symbols that you can use in your posts. The hashtag symbol 
(`#`) turns the word that follows it into a hashtag. When viewing a post, 
hashtags appear as links. You can click on any hashtag to view a list of posts 
that contain the same hashtag. Note that hashtags are distinct from portal 
tags--only portal tags are indexed and made available for search. The other 
special symbol you can use is the mentions symbol (`@`). When writing a post, 
typing the `@` symbol brings up a list of connections to select. Once you select 
a connection and publish your post, the connection's username becomes a link to 
their public profile page (their My Profile page). 

The Microblogs widget is effectively the Microblogs Status Update widget on 
steroids. You can post your status the exact same way. The Microblogs widget, 
however, displays *all* your posts in the *Timeline* tab. The posts of your 
connections and those you follow also appear in the Timeline. You can also 
comment on any post, edit your posts, and repost others' posts. The *Mentions* 
tab displays any posts that mention you. If you click a hashtag in any post, a 
new tab opens in the Microblogs widget that shows all the posts containing that 
hashtag. 

![Figure 2: The Microblogs widget displays all your status posts, along with those of your social connections. It also lets you view any posts you're mentioned in.](../../../images/microblogs-app.png)
